import { CodeBlock, dracula } from 'react-code-blocks';

## Defining an Action

Just like loaders, we define `Actions` as exported named functions in route
modules. Actions correlate to the POST request to the route. It's server side
code that performs it's "action" and then re-hydrates the server with the
response.

<CodeBlock
  text={`
export async function action({ request }) {
  const formData = await request.formData();
  const name = formData.get('name');
  const email = formData.get('email');
  const { id } = await createAuthor(name, email);
  return redirect('/authors/{id}'); // incorrect syntax but my CodeBlock plugin doesn't have a fix :)
}

`} language="TypeScript" showLineNumbers={false} theme={dracula} />

<br />

### Form Data

I was shocked I didn't know this until learning Remix, but your browser has a
`FormData` API. It's a key/value interface that can be easily sent over `fetch`
or `XMLHttpRequest`.

The `<Form />` component takes the data your users fill out and sends it to the
routes corresponding action. Then in the action we're able to access that form
data: `request.formData()`.

One caveat is that the `name` and `email` values are `FormDataEntryValue` types
and not strings. They can be casted though! There are better ways to handle this
form data and validate in the action, but this is a simple example!

### Action Response

The next part is the response. In the above action we're returning a `redirect`
to the browser. We get the id of the author we just created and then go to the
individual page for them.

In some cases you don't want to navigate to a new page after you submit data. In
that case you can return json like you do from loaders!

### Handling Errors

What if your action had errors! Maybe thhe user forgot to add an email! Since we
can return json from loaders we can load that data into a route and display
error messages:

<CodeBlock
  text={`
export function action() {
  return json({ message: 'Name required!' }, { status: 500 } );
}
export default function Route() {
  const data = useActionData<typeof action>();
  return (<p>{data?.message ?? ""}</p>);
}

`} language="TypeScript" showLineNumbers={false} theme={dracula} />

<br />

We can call `useActionData` to pull in the response from our action. Keep in
mind that this is undefined until the action is invoked!

There's a lot of levers Remix gives us to customize these actions. We don't
always want to mutate from a form - or maybe we have multiple actions that need
to be on the same route. Maybe we aren't posting data but still need to indicate
a mutation should occur. Remix covers many different use cases pretty easily.

Let's try out actions for ourselves.

import { Link } from '@remix-run/react';

<div className="button-group">
  <Link to="/modules/remix-actions/building-a-form">
    <button>Building a Form</button>
  </Link>

  <Link to="/modules/remix-actions/exercise">
    <button>Exercise</button>
  </Link>
</div>
